Virtual Networks

Azure virtual networks (Vnet) is the fundamental building block for you private network in Azure

AZure virtual network is the representationof your own network in the cloud.

Key Features:
Internet communication
Comunicate between Axure resources
Route network traffic
Communicate with on-premises resources
Filter network traffic
Connect virtual networks.

UDR
user defined routing is a significant update to azure's virtual networks as this allows network admins to control the routing tables btw subnets within a Vnet.

VPN Gateway

A VPN gateway is a specifc type of virtual network gateway, which is used to send encrypted traffic btw an azure virtual network and an-premises location over the public internet.

All transferred data is encrypted in aprivate tunnel as it 	crosses the internet

Peering 

Virtual networks peering enables us to connect two VNet in the same or across regions.If both of the virtual networks are in azure and also within the same region, then you can use peering.

Global Peering

If we have a virtual network in azure that exists in different regions, then we can use global peering

Site to Site

On premises virtual network, we may have other virtual networks existing int other cloud providers.

Express Route

We have a bussiness requirement where this connection btw our on-premises data center and virtua network should be on aprivate channel of communication

Points to remember while peering

Peering btw VNets is allowed in the same subscriptions
	

Host and Deploy

Step-1: Login to Azure Portal (https://portal ature.com/

Step-2 Navigate to the virage account that you have created above

Step 3: Now click on the State website link from the left navigation.

Step-4. Click on the Enabled option for the State website option Provide the value for the option Index document name as index.html and Error document path as 404.html Then click on the Save button to save the changes.

Step-5 Once you clicked on the Save button, it will populate the value for the primary and secondary end points.

Deploy Website On Azure


Step-1: Create an empty folder in your local system and then give
a name to tna folder on your choice


Step-2 Open tho Visual Studio Code and click an tho Explorer icon
Now click on the Open Foider button to open tho falder thal you
have created above

(Install )
Step-3: After operating the folder, click on the new file button to
creato a new file and name it as index.html

Step-4 Open the index .htmnl fio and paste the below lino af code

Step-5: Create another file and name it as 404.html and paste the
below code in the 404 html. file

Step-6 Right-clck an the down to ihe folder you have created and
tien cick an the Deploy to Static Website ... option

Step-7 Now cick on tho Sign in to Azure. buton to algn In Enter
the Azuro credential to login.	

Step-9 Now sinco you have Loyged in to tha Pontal arceesshily.I
mi prompl you to selecl the storage account fo cick an
the storgo occount in the Visual sudio coda kindos

Step-10: Now in the same Viunl studio codo screen, you can sca
doen thn pop up saying thal Deplayment comolcte. Cick on
tho Browso to wchsito to Drowne th static sie

Grcp-11 Now after clicking an tho frowse to website button, n1 wa
bruwso ths webaite from tha storage account Check e

thank u